Ok so today we're talking about multicollinearity effects as I recall last time we created a new variable
which is a wealth accumulation which basically equals balance divided by age and we include in our model
and all we can see right away is that it doesn't have any significance.
However that sometimes can happen when you have multicollinearity in your independent variables and
what that means is that they're correlated and therefore as we know it's not a good thing when you're
independent variables are correlated.
It can cause a moral to break.
So wealth accumulation balance and age or in this case log balance are all linked because wealth commission
is basically balance divided by age.
So how do we check if there is any multicollinearity present in our model.
Well there's a very simple step first step which is to use the variance inflation factors and to get
to that in Grendal you just have to go to a moral Klik test and click on coaling charity.
And as you can see here we've got a new screen that popped up.
It's got Varians inflation factors and it's got some basic information for you here right away.
Minimum possible values 1 values over 10 may indicate culinarily peculiarity problem.
So here you can see that lawk balance and wealth accumulation actually have a 5.8 and 5.7.
Now that's not over 10 but that's already greater than the rest of the variable so it's indicating that
something might be going on.
So what else we can do right now is we can't rerun this model but we'll take a look balance out and
see what happens to wealth accumulation.
Let's go to a model limited logic binary and I'm going to take simply take wealth accumulation out of
the mall load balance out of the model and rerun it like that.
So I'm I'm running out of space here.
I'll put it down here so we're comparing this to this.
Here you can see that welfare Commission doesn't have any significance.
Here you can see right away it became very significant and it even changed its sign.
So that is always interesting here.
You remember a lot of balance was positive.
The greater the somebodies balance the more likely they are to leave here low balance was positive as
well.
And the coefficient increased wealth accumulation had a negative side.
And but it was insignificant we didn't care about the sign.
But now it became significant and it has a positive sign.
That is a good indication that perhaps what is happening is that load balance and willful accumulation
because their current correlated the regression model was giving them opposite signs so that they would
negate each other out.
And don't forget that this is actually attempts tend to power minus 5 so while doesn't doesn't really
affect our conclusion.
But anyway so there is a chance that because they're correlated they're getting different sides.
And since you had one of them this one got her an opposite side that switched its side and also became
significant.
That's a good indication that there is some sort of correlation for go to tests again and go to school
in yesterday.
Now you see that everything is below two.
So it's a wealth accumulation drop that already.
OK.
That's interesting.
So what we can do now is in order to explore the effects of culinarily even in more detail what it will
do is will create another variable so for now I'm just going to put all of these here you can see how
it's growing very steadily is growing.
And we'll talk about this more later about you know manually creating models in the summer for the section
.
But as you can see we're doing a lot of work and a lot of thinking and we are using business knowledge
to make corrections to the model and things like that so something a machine can't really do.
Not at this stage anyway.
So that is important.
I just want you to remember this picture mentally when we talk about models the way we created the model
in the summary for this section.
Anyway moving back to what we're doing now is creating a new variable.
Let's create a variable which is a log of your wealth accumulation.
Define your variable log underscore w a for wealth accumulation equals.
So be the same log 10 balance divided by age plus 1.
Because balance can be zero.
Looks good.
All right.
There it is.
So now what we want to do is how about we include this variable along with Flugge balance just like
we had here we had low balance and wealth accumulation.
How what.
Just to amplify the effect and the possible effect of correlation will include these two because they're
more similar than wealth and LUGG balance these two are way more civil and that way we'll be able to
explore correlation a bit better.
So let's go to logit binary and we'll take on wealth accumulation and instead we'll include
load balance and log wealth accumulation and we'll click OK.
And now let's look at what we have here.
So here you can see that both loved baluns and LOEG wealth accumulation is significant.
Very interesting observation right.
So they're both significant variables they both have a impact or have association with the independent
variable a dependent variable which is exited.
However again you can see that they have different opposite sides right.
So one is improving.
So one is actually means that people are more likely to exit.
One is saying less likely.
Another thing that you might want to notice is that back here log balance had a positive sign.
Now it has or it has and still has a positive side.
So LUGG wealth accumulation though has a negative sign.
So here wealth accumulation had a positive sign here LOEG wealth accumulation is a negative sign.
Let's go ahead and check for our.
What are we checking for Colin Geraghty over here.
So here you can see that the vivs for load balance and Log W.A. through the roof they're not just overturned
.
They're well over 10.
They're 700 plus.
So that is the model screaming at you saying that you have included two variables that are basically
the same thing.
And this is a very very bad for the model.
It's pretty much breaking it.
So we want to definitely exclude one of them when you see something like that you need to exclude one
of the variables.
And in this case we're going to exclude alog W.A. because in our scenario low balances I believe better
but we can still explore.
So if we want to understand which I don't want to exclude How about we just take LUGG balance out leave
log W.A. and now I go to this model which had bought which had LOEG balance.
No the one that that didn't have w at all so this model right.
And here we can just compare the two.
This one had 1 5 1 0 6 and this one is 1 5 0 8 7 so our Square went down when we place look balanced
with love W.A. and just so what does accuracy do.
Well increases a little bit but in this case so there's no point in replacing balance with a more complex
variable.
We'll just keep balance.
So there you go.
Put this one here.
Dangerously running out of space.
All right.
Whereas my model so low that we're out lock balance in that's checking for multicollinearity using the
VIF